README.md, before:

# Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis
An analysis of Chicago crime data using Apache Spark. The data can be pulled from the [Chicago Crime Data Link](https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-present/ijzp-q8t2). A link to code for analysis is present with every result(Please refer the uncommented code)

#### Technologies Used
 - Scala
 - Spark Core APIs

## Questions Answered about data

*There were 594681 cases with no mention of community numbers so they are excluded from the analysis*

#### Top 10 communities with most crime [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/caa1436f5dcd78ed5ead15315b487fef36339459/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Community Code        | Community Name           | Crime Numbers  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
|25 | Austin | 368568|
|43 | South Shore | 186096|
|23 | Humboldt Park | 181174|
|67 | West Englewood | 169988|
|24 | West Town | 168683|
|28 | Near West Side | 164947|
|29 | North Lawndale | 163847|
|71 | Auburn Gresham | 161269|
|68 | Englewood | 152333|
|49 | Roseland | 149107|

#### Top 10 communities with least crime [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/616d9158e4161caa2afa06e592de2e7820e6f998/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Community Code        | Community Name           | Crime Numbers  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
|47 | Burnside  | 8525|
|12 | Forest Glen | 10414|
|74 | Mount Greenwood | 12113|
|55 | Hegewisch | 12433|
|36 | Oakland | 12672|
|18 | Montclare | 13842|
|13 | North Park | 18322|
|57 | Archer Heights | 19661|
|37 | Fuller Park | 19693|
|72 | Beverly | 20673|

#### Top 3 Crime Types [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/588cf5299fa858e4818601e097250fab26bf7d7c/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Crime Type        | Percentage (%)          |
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| THEFT | 20.91 |
| BATTERY | 18.25 |
| CRIMINAL DAMAGE | 11.47 |

#### What months do criminal like? [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/0b3d4be8c04d4a2dce34e798ddb3be32f67b7dda/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Month Number | Number of cases  | Percentage (%) |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:| 
| 7 | 605183 | 9.3 |
| 8 | 598999 | 9.2 |
| 5 | 578254 | 8.88 |

#### What months have lower criminal activities? [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/e09e49f642c9be40138f6268623898843a6a5ced/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Month Number | Number of cases  | Percentage (%) |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:| 
| 2 | 446463 | 6.86 |
| 12 | 478061 | 7.35 |
| 1 | 507500 | 7.8 |

*Seeing the above results, we see a pattern that criminals have preferred warmer months to colder months such as Dec for their activities*

#### What is the most unsafe time to be in the streets?
| Time | Number of cases  | Percentage(%)  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:|
| 08 PM | 371513 | 5.71 |
| 07 PM | 370697 | 5.7  |
| 12 PM | 369403 | 5.68 |
| 09 PM | 363716 | 5.59 |
| 12 AM | 361560 | 5.56 |

#### What is the most safe time to be in the streets?

#### Which is the most unsafe street

#### Which is the most safe street

#### Is Chicago PD doing a good job?

#### Is there any safe area left?

Commit message:

Most safe timings to be on the street

README.md, after:

# Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis
An analysis of Chicago crime data using Apache Spark. The data can be pulled from the [Chicago Crime Data Link](https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-present/ijzp-q8t2). A link to code for analysis is present with every result(Please refer the uncommented code)

#### Technologies Used
 - Scala
 - Spark Core APIs

## Questions Answered about data

*There were 594681 cases with no mention of community numbers so they are excluded from the analysis*

#### Top 10 communities with most crime [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/caa1436f5dcd78ed5ead15315b487fef36339459/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Community Code        | Community Name           | Crime Numbers  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
|25 | Austin | 368568|
|43 | South Shore | 186096|
|23 | Humboldt Park | 181174|
|67 | West Englewood | 169988|
|24 | West Town | 168683|
|28 | Near West Side | 164947|
|29 | North Lawndale | 163847|
|71 | Auburn Gresham | 161269|
|68 | Englewood | 152333|
|49 | Roseland | 149107|

#### Top 10 communities with least crime [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/616d9158e4161caa2afa06e592de2e7820e6f998/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Community Code        | Community Name           | Crime Numbers  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
|47 | Burnside  | 8525|
|12 | Forest Glen | 10414|
|74 | Mount Greenwood | 12113|
|55 | Hegewisch | 12433|
|36 | Oakland | 12672|
|18 | Montclare | 13842|
|13 | North Park | 18322|
|57 | Archer Heights | 19661|
|37 | Fuller Park | 19693|
|72 | Beverly | 20673|

#### Top 3 Crime Types [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/588cf5299fa858e4818601e097250fab26bf7d7c/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Crime Type        | Percentage (%)          |
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| THEFT | 20.91 |
| BATTERY | 18.25 |
| CRIMINAL DAMAGE | 11.47 |

#### What months do criminal like? [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/0b3d4be8c04d4a2dce34e798ddb3be32f67b7dda/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Month Number | Number of cases  | Percentage (%) |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:| 
| 7 | 605183 | 9.3 |
| 8 | 598999 | 9.2 |
| 5 | 578254 | 8.88 |

#### What months have lower criminal activities? [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/e09e49f642c9be40138f6268623898843a6a5ced/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Month Number | Number of cases  | Percentage (%) |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:| 
| 2 | 446463 | 6.86 |
| 12 | 478061 | 7.35 |
| 1 | 507500 | 7.8 |

*Seeing the above results, we see a pattern that criminals have preferred warmer months to colder months such as Dec for their activities*

#### What is the most unsafe time to be in the streets? [Code Link](https://github.com/varunu28/Chicago-Crime-Data-Analysis/blob/8a18839b4f43c03adafa9b312e409d72532abace/src/main/scala/Analysis.scala)
| Time | Number of cases  | Percentage(%)  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:|
| 08 PM | 371513 | 5.71 |
| 07 PM | 370697 | 5.7  |
| 12 PM | 369403 | 5.68 |
| 09 PM | 363716 | 5.59 |
| 12 AM | 361560 | 5.56 |

#### What is the most safe time to be in the streets?
| Time | Number of cases  | Percentage(%)   |
| ------------- |:-------------:| :-------------:|
| 05 AM | 86597 | 1.33 |
| 06 AM | 102302 | 1.57 |
| 04 AM | 104799 | 1.61 |
| 03 AM | 139686 | 2.15 |
| 07 AM | 147395 | 2.26 |

*So according to the data, while your morning walk will be pleasant and safe, you need to be careful when you leave your office in the evening or return back home after a drink at the local bar*

#### Which is the most unsafe street

#### Which is the most safe street

#### Is Chicago PD doing a good job?

#### Is there any safe area left?
